README.md, before:

Execution
=========

`RateLimiter.pm [bind addr] [port]`

Arguments:
----------

* `bind addr` is the ip address to
* `port` is udp port to listen to

Environment variables:
----------------------

* `VERBOSE` increases log verbosity


Installation:
=============

See https://bitbucket.org/metabrainz/gateway-chef/src/master/cookbooks/ratelimit/


Logs
====

`tail -F -s 0.1 log/main/current | tai64nlocal` - tail the busy log (all
requests/responses)

`tail -F -s 0.1 log/quiet/current | tai64nlocal` - tail the quiet log
(excludes requests/responses, so this is just start/stop/error, etc)

Monitoring
==========

`./top` - every 10 seconds, shows the most-requested keys, their rates,
limits, what proportion of requests are being denied, etc.

Debugging
=========

`./request COMMAND ...` - simple hook to send a request to the ratelimit-server
e.g.

```
	./request get_size
```

Slightly less crap version:
`./ratelimit-client ADDR PORT QUERY`
e.g.

```
	"./ratelimit-client 10.1.1.245 2000 get_size"
```

snmp
====

http://stats.musicbrainz.org/mrtg/drraw/drraw.cgi?Mode=view;Dashboard=1262470284.29707

From left to right:

- number of keys.  Not amazingly useful.  This is just the size of the
  in-memory Perl hash in the ratelimit-server.  Starts at zero when the
  ratelimit-server (re-)starts; grows.
  (Think: scalar keys %hash)

- bucket spread.  Represents the percentage of buckets used in the above hash.
  (Think: scalar %hash)

- "ws global" requests.  Currently shows requests/refusals per second.
  Ideally of course refusals should be zero.

- "ws global" peak rate.  This is the peak rate per time-period.  We currently
  have ws-global set to 900 per 10 seconds, so the max rate is 900.  If this
  is constantly pegged at 900, it means that (during every 5-minute interval)
  we hit the 900 limit at least once.

So in summary:

- keys: pretty much ignore
- spread: 100% good, 0% bad
- ws global requests:
  - requests represents our traffic
  - refusals: 0 good, higher=bad
- ws global peak rate:
  - pegged at our configured limit = bad, lower=good

Still plenty of work to be done to get that packaged up, to get it to work
across carl too, etc.

TODO:

- have snmpd on carl/lenny listen on specific IPs, not 0.0.0.0
- have scooby mrtg monitor snmp on ratelimit.localdomain
?

- package it up

Commit message:

Add a note about JSON module

README.md, after:

Execution
=========

`RateLimiter.pm [bind addr] [port]`

Arguments:
----------

* `bind addr` is the ip address to
* `port` is udp port to listen to

Environment variables:
----------------------

* `VERBOSE` increases log verbosity


Installation:
=============

See https://bitbucket.org/metabrainz/gateway-chef/src/master/cookbooks/ratelimit/

It depends on JSON perl module.
It can be install on Debian/Ubuntu systems using:

```
sudo apt-get install libjson-perl
```


Logs
====

`tail -F -s 0.1 log/main/current | tai64nlocal` - tail the busy log (all
requests/responses)

`tail -F -s 0.1 log/quiet/current | tai64nlocal` - tail the quiet log
(excludes requests/responses, so this is just start/stop/error, etc)

Monitoring
==========

`./top` - every 10 seconds, shows the most-requested keys, their rates,
limits, what proportion of requests are being denied, etc.

Debugging
=========

`./request COMMAND ...` - simple hook to send a request to the ratelimit-server
e.g.

```
	./request get_size
```

Slightly less crap version:
`./ratelimit-client ADDR PORT QUERY`
e.g.

```
	"./ratelimit-client 10.1.1.245 2000 get_size"
```

snmp
====

http://stats.musicbrainz.org/mrtg/drraw/drraw.cgi?Mode=view;Dashboard=1262470284.29707

From left to right:

- number of keys.  Not amazingly useful.  This is just the size of the
  in-memory Perl hash in the ratelimit-server.  Starts at zero when the
  ratelimit-server (re-)starts; grows.
  (Think: scalar keys %hash)

- bucket spread.  Represents the percentage of buckets used in the above hash.
  (Think: scalar %hash)

- "ws global" requests.  Currently shows requests/refusals per second.
  Ideally of course refusals should be zero.

- "ws global" peak rate.  This is the peak rate per time-period.  We currently
  have ws-global set to 900 per 10 seconds, so the max rate is 900.  If this
  is constantly pegged at 900, it means that (during every 5-minute interval)
  we hit the 900 limit at least once.

So in summary:

- keys: pretty much ignore
- spread: 100% good, 0% bad
- ws global requests:
  - requests represents our traffic
  - refusals: 0 good, higher=bad
- ws global peak rate:
  - pegged at our configured limit = bad, lower=good

Still plenty of work to be done to get that packaged up, to get it to work
across carl too, etc.

TODO:

- have snmpd on carl/lenny listen on specific IPs, not 0.0.0.0
- have scooby mrtg monitor snmp on ratelimit.localdomain
?

- package it up
